Robert generique the government has
dropped its original stay-at-home
message and a substitute stay alert
what to stay alert mean well good
morning Andrew and at 7:00 o'clock
tonight the Prime Minister will lay out
a roadmap for the next phase of the
virus we've passed the peak and so we do
think is the right moment to update and
to broaden the message so stay alert
will mean stay alert by staying home as
much as possible but stay alert when you
do go out by maintaining social
distancing washing your hands respecting
others in the workplace and the other
settings that you'll go to this will be
a cautious message because the rate of
infection is still high and the public
are understandably anxious for England
Scotland and Wales will keep stay at
home as their message we were we would
like the whole of the United Kingdom to
move as one that's our strong preference
the Prime Minister will lay out this
message for the whole country tonight
but obviously Scotland Wales in Northern
Ireland
I can choose can choose to take
different approaches here as they wish
to here is why I mean Nicola Sturgeon
the First Minister of Scotland has said
on Thursday for us to drop the clear
well-understood
stay-at-home message right now could be
a potentially catastrophic mistake well
staying at home will still be an
important part of the message we want
people to stay at home as much as
possible but when they do go out when
they do go out to work or to shop or to
look after the vulnerable to do so by
respecting social distancing and one of
your previous contributors said there's
no place for nuance I disagree with that
I think that the public are capable of
understanding a broader message as we
move into the next phase of the virus
we're going to be living with the virus
in one form another hopefully declining
for some time so we need a more nuanced
message and that's what the Prime
Minister will lay out later today
[Music]
see the headlines as they happen and
watch BBC News live in the app and get
the full story with BBC decoder UK
forward slash news follow the story for
all the latest with BBC News